R4R: Staking Spec Upgrade (#3281)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/spec/staking/state.md

`ValidatorsByPower` is a secondary index that provides a sorted list of
potential validators to quickly determine the current active set. Note 
that all validators where `Jailed` is true are not stored within this index.

Each validator's state is stored in a `Validator` struct:

```golang
type Validator struct {
    OperatorAddr    sdk.ValAddress // address of the validator's operator; bech encoded in JSON
    ConsPubKey      crypto.PubKey  // Tendermint consensus pubkey of validator
    Jailed          bool           // has the validator been jailed?

    Status          sdk.BondStatus // validator status (bonded/unbonding/unbonded)
    Tokens          sdk.Int        // delegated tokens (incl. self-delegation)
    DelegatorShares sdk.Dec        // total shares issued to a validator's delegators

    Description Description  // description terms for the validator

    // Needed for ordering vals in the by-power key
    UnbondingHeight  int64     // if unbonding, height at which this validator has begun unbonding
    UnbondingMinTime time.Time // if unbonding, min time for the validator to complete unbonding

    Commission Commission // info about the validator's commission
}

> Commission struct {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type Commission struct {
```

### Pool

> The pool dynamically tracks information about the total amounts of staking

Reviewer 2: Maybe:

```
The pool dynamically tracks the total amounts of tokens (each staking denom is tracked separately) and their state (bonded or loose).

> Note: `NotBondedTokens` _includes_ both tokens in an `unbonding` state as well as fully `unbonded` tokens. 
```

Author: updated to something close to this

> The pool dynamically tracks information about the total amounts of staking

Reviewer: What do you mean by "dynamically" - as opposed to "statically"? Further explication requested!

Author: updated something close to Jack's suggestion without `dynamically` I think it's just unnecessary. All I meant is that the pool is frequently updated by state transitions.

tokens and their states (bonded or loose). Note that `NotBondedTokens` _does_
include both `unbonding` tokens, and fully `unbonded` tokens. 

>  - Pool: `0x01 -> amino(pool)`

Reviewer 2: So is this the store key bytes? Would love some more explanation here.

Author: see the spec spec section `### Notation for key-value mapping`

```golang
type Pool struct {
    NotBondedTokens sdk.Int   // tokens not associated with any bonded validator
    BondedTokens    sdk.Int   // reserve of bonded tokens
}
```

### Params

> Params is global data structure that stores system parameters and defines

Reviewer 2: Params is _*a*_...

Author: :+1:

> Params is global data structure that stores system parameters and defines

Reviewer: I think "global data structure" is a little confusing - it's not a global in *Golang* - maybe "common module configuration structure.

Author: updated to `module-wide configuration structure`

> overall functioning of the staking module. it is stored 

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave off `it is stored` here. Link to the paramstore spec ideally.

Author: yeah this is typo removing

>  - Params: `Paramsspace("staking") -> amino(params)`

Reviewer 2: This is not informative to non-sdk devs IMO. Don't really know what is being conveyed here.

Reviewer: Agreed - also this isn't the actual store key.

Author: I literally don't really comprehend how to adequately write the spec for the params store stuff at the moment.. I'm going to leave and open an issue for further thought.. @cwgoes if you have a good grasp on how this could be better depicted please push! New issue: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/3326

```golang
type Params struct {

> 	UnbondingTime time.Duration // time duration of unbonding

Reviewer 2: Indent?

    MaxValidators uint16        // maximum number of validators
    BondDenom     string        // bondable coin denomination
}
```

### Validator

> Validators are identified according to the `OperatorAddr`, an SDK validator

Reviewer 2: The next two paragraphs contain information about the different validator keys without explaining the difference between the keys (how to differentiate them visually, or in code) or what the functions of each are. I think we should add some more explanation here.

Author: This spec is not supposed to specify detailed function names/specifics of implementation, only the key-value specifics (as is done). It is up to the implementer of the spec to decide what the names of these functions should be called, hence function names have not been included. 

However, I've updated (and combined) this top section to explain to summarize the uses of each key/index. Further I've also improved the paragraphs following the key-bulleted list to better describe the more detailed usage.

address for the operator of the validator.
Validators also have a `ConsPubKey`, the public key of the validator used in
Tendermint consensus. The validator can be retrieved from it's `ConsPubKey`
once it can be converted into the corresponding `ConsAddr`. Validators are
indexed in the store using the following maps:

> - Validators: `0x21 | OperatorAddr -> amino(validator)`

Reviewer 2: Again, more explanation here would be great.

Author: see my previous comment on byte structure, also the following descriptions are quite comprehensive on describing the usage of the indexes

map is needed to find the operator.

`ValidatorsByPower` is a secondary index that provides a sorted list of
potential validators to quickly determine the current active set. Note 
that all validators where `Jailed` is true are not stored within this index.

> The `Validator` holds the current state of the validator.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is not really helpful. Maybe:

```
Validator state is stored in a `Validator` struct:
```

```golang
type Validator struct {

> 	OperatorAddr    sdk.ValAddress // address of the validator's operator; bech encoded in JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  OperatorAddr    sdk.ValAddress // address of the validator's operator; bech encoded in JSON
```

    ConsPubKey      crypto.PubKey  // Tendermint consensus pubkey of validator
    Jailed          bool           // has the validator been jailed?

    Status          sdk.BondStatus // validator status (bonded/unbonding/unbonded)
    Tokens          sdk.Int        // delegated tokens (incl. self-delegation)
    DelegatorShares sdk.Dec        // total shares issued to a validator's delegators

    Description Description  // description terms for the validator

    // Needed for ordering vals in the by-power key

> 	UnbondingHeight  int64     // if unbonding, height at which this validator has begun unbonding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  UnbondingHeight  int64     // if unbonding, height at which this validator has begun unbonding
```

Reviewer: @rigelrozanski I think your editor is saving tab characters :ghost:

> 	UnbondingMinTime time.Time // if unbonding, min time for the validator to complete unbonding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  UnbondingMinTime time.Time // if unbonding, min time for the validator to complete unbonding
```

slashed.

A UnbondingDelegation object is created every time an unbonding is initiated.

> k

Reviewer 2: delete

### Redelegation

The bonded tokens worth of a `Delegation` may be instantly redelegated from a
source validator to a different validator (destination validator). However when
this occurs they must be tracked in a `Redelegation` object, whereby their

> shares can be slashed if their tokens were found to contribute to Byzantine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shares can be slashed if their tokens were found to have contributed to a Byzantine
```

Author: added

> behavior in the source validator.  This is tracked as moving a delegation from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fault committed by the source validator.  This is tracked as moving a delegation from
```

Reviewer: "Moving a delegation" is confusing and doesn't reflect the implementation - can we just say "unbond and rebond" or something?

Author: first suggested added

Author: I think the whole second sentence is actually unnecessary - removing.

a `ValidatorSrcAddr` to a `ValidatorDstAddr`.

`Redelegation` are indexed in the store as:

 - Redelegations: `0x34 | DelegatorAddr | ValidatorSrcAddr | ValidatorDstAddr -> amino(redelegation)`
 - RedelegationsBySrc: `0x35 | ValidatorSrcAddr | ValidatorDstAddr | DelegatorAddr -> nil`
 - RedelegationsByDst: `0x36 | ValidatorDstAddr | ValidatorSrcAddr | DelegatorAddr -> nil`

The first map here is used for queries, to lookup all redelegations for a given
delegator. The second map is used for slashing based on the `ValidatorSrcAddr`,
while the third map is for slashing based on the `ValidatorDstAddr`.

A redelegation object is created every time a redelegation occurs. The

> destination delegation of a redelegation may not itself undergo a new

Reviewer: Confusingly worded. The destination validator could have other redelegations - rather, it's that the delegator cannot redelegate away from a validator to which they are currently redelegating.

Author: Agree was confusing, made considerably more clear IMO: 

```
A redelegation object is created every time a redelegation occurs.  To prevent
"redelegation hopping" redelegations may not occure under the situation that:
 - the (re)delegator already has another unmature redelegation in progress
   with a destination to a validator (let's call it `Validator X`)
 - and, the (re)delegator is attempting to create a _new_ redelegation 
   where the source validator for this new redelegation is `Validator-X`. 
```
